Docs: dev blog post for Cardano database backend switch (#2583)
input-output-hk/mithril: docs/website/blog/2025-06-17-client-cli-cardano-database-backends.md

---
title: Switching to Cardano database incremental certification
authors:
  - name: Mithril Team
tags:
  [
    mithril client,
    library,
    cli,
    Cardano database,
    Cardano database v2,
    certification,
    backend,
  ]
---

### Switching to Cardano database incremental certification

We have recently introduced a new incremental certification process for the **Cardano node internal database**. This change is part of our ongoing efforts to enhance the Mithril protocol and improve the efficiency of Cardano node bootstrapping.

More information about the Cardano database certifications is available at:

- [Cardano node database](https://mithril.network/doc/mithril/advanced/mithril-certification/cardano-node-database)
- [Cardano node database v2](https://mithril.network/doc/mithril/advanced/mithril-certification/cardano-node-database-v2)

> The **Cardano node database v2** certification is incremental and more efficient than the original **Cardano node database** certification. Thus it will progressively replace the current certification process for the Cardano node internal database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Cardano node database v2 certification offers incremental verification and greater efficiency compared to the original method. It will progressively replace the current certification process for the Cardano node internal database.
```

> To facilitate this transition, we have made updates to both the **Mithril client CLI** and the **Mithril client library**. These changes are designed to support the new incremental certification process and ensure a smooth experience for users.
> 
> In particular, the `cardano-db` command in the Mithril client CLI has been updated to support the new incremental certification process and eventually a seamless switch to the new backend. The command now includes a `--backend` option which allows users to specify which certification they want to use:
> 
> - `--backend v1` for the original Cardano node database certification (which is still the default version)
> - `--backend v2` for the new incremental Cardano node database certification.
> 
> We intend to transition all users to the new incremental certification process over the next few months:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To facilitate this transition, updates have been made to both the **Mithril client CLI** and the **Mithril client library**. These changes are designed to support the new incremental certification process and ensure a smooth user experience.

In particular, the `cardano-db` command in the Mithril client CLI has been updated to support the new incremental certification process and eventually a seamless switch to the new backend. A new `--backend` option has been added to the command, allowing users to specify the certification version:

- `--backend v1` uses the original Cardano node database certification (this remains the default)
- `--backend v2` enables the new incremental Cardano node database certification.

To support this transition, both certification versions will remain available during the migration period, allowing users to adapt at their own pace.
```
